So here's what we're going to do next.
We're going to create a very simple application.
What are we going to have a button of some sort or tappable UI widget?
And when that is tapped like this circle is tapped, we want to increment the amount of money we'll
see at the top there.
So it's a very simple app, but it will give us some insights into compose and how certain things work.
All right, let's go ahead and get started.
So back in our project, let's clean things up.
So there are a lot of things that we no longer need.
In this case, I'm just going to get rid of all of this.
OK.
And then get rid of this switch just for testing purposes, I'm going to get rid of this composable
as well, which means this needs to go.
Can't do that anymore.
OK.
All right.
So the first thing I'm going to do here inside of our set content we are passing, of course, the composed
theme I don't have a surface we've talked about is taking over the entire screen at this point because
we have max height and max width.
We add some padding and at this point, let's just get rid of that because we're not going to need that.
Of course, forget our comma there.
OK, now one thing I want to do is, in fact, let's come back now.
One thing I want to do is I want to remove this surface outside into its own place.
So I'm going to create another composable here.
So say at.
Space at composable are such a fun call, is my app OK?
And then for this, my app here, what I'm going to do, I'm going to get this entire surface there,
but this is going to be our canvas for, say, I'm going to put it here as such.
OK.
And then for now, inside here, let's just say text and say hello.
OK, I'm going to call my app, of course, inside here.
My app has a composable.
Very good.
And then also my app here.
So this is just a very simple way of organizing our composable.
So we want to have it inside here because we want to be able to see in our preview here.
So I'm going to go ahead and refresh.
And there you have it, so we get what we are looking for.
And the other thing you see to the right bottom right here, we can actually toggle the present.
We can actually toggle the views here.
I can maximize or zoom in or minimize zoom out.
So in this case, if I go to click the Zoom to fit screen, click here.
I can see it's going to go ahead and zoom to fit this real estate we have.
OK.
All right, so we have everything looking good, so there is the color.
Primary color, because that's where we chose.
The other thing I can do if I want to, for instance, add a customized color, I can get rid of this
and I can invoke color classes that and pass.
And pass in its constructor, I'm going to pass the.
Code that will represent different culture that I want, right, so to pass the tax code as they seek
to pass a hex code here, which will represent a color.
The first thing they have to do this is zero X. And then I already have the I'm just going to.
And then I already have the color somewhere.
Go and find it.
And I'm going to add it there.
The other thing I'm going to add, I'm going CFF to begin with like this.
And then the actual color, OK?
Looks like this.
All right, there we go.
So these colors here, it doesn't matter, really.
You can put whatever you want, but I just found that color to be great.
So I'm going to go ahead and refresh this real quick to see the differences.
OK, so there we go.
We have that very nice color there.
Very good.
So that was a test.
I'm going to get rid of this and continue.
Now the next thing I want.
So what is all I want to do?
First of all, when I create a circle inside here, the different ways to create a circle.
So I'm going to create yet another composable here, say at composable such.
It's call safe fun, and I say create.
Circle.
Like this?
OK.
And inside here, I'm going to create a circle.
How do I create a circle?
As I said, there are different ways, but the basics is that we need to have some sort of the baseline
or we have to have some sort of.
The main composable we can call and then we can modify it.
So let's start with a card or something and say, card it like this, so it is a composable hit enter.
And for now, also I'm going to go ahead and make this reviewable.
So that way I can also preview to the right here.
So at preview such and in this card here, if you hover over, you will see that there are a lot of
arguments that we can pass.
Most important one, we have this modifier and we have the shape and background and so forth.
And one thing that is very important the order in which these are added is very important as well.
OK, so let's start with the modifier, because, well, allow us to modify.
I didn't even play our card.
OK, so I hear I'm going to pass the same modifier as such, and the I.D. will help us just hit enter
and then pass modifier, and then we can call whatever one can use padding.
Just put three that deep right and I can chain or a modifier I've shown before.
So what I want to do is, for instance, I can see dot background and give it color to the background.
All sort of things.
But the other thing I want to do, I will stop with the modifier for now if I hover over here.
There are other things we can pass.
The other one is shape.
What shape do I want this to have or to take so I can come here with Colin?
Or I should say, and what's a shape?
Now there are different kinds of shape we can pass.
In this case, I'm going to just see circle shape as such.
So this card as it is right now, let's go ahead and run this or refresh.
Let's see what's going to happen.
You can see it's very small.
There is the card, right?
It doesn't have much because number one, we don't have a size and it doesn't even show the circle shape.
Let's see something here.
If I come back to our modifier, say Dot, I'm going to say width.
I such and you say width.
And also there is height so we can specify the width and height.
But there's also another way of doing this, I could also pass this size.
So there are overloaded sizes.
Function size functions here we have this size.
Here you can see we passed just one size, right?
If you passed that one size, that means it's going to take up four width and height.
But you can specify size for width and height.
You can specify sizing and so many.
Now let's go just to size and say, I want this to be about 45 that deep.
OK, I section, let's refresh.
And just like that.
Ladies and gentlemen, you can see we have our circle.
Very good.
So again, because of modifier, we say padding, it's going to be about three deep and the size is
going to be 45, so the smaller the size, obviously, the smaller the circle's going to be.
And we say the shape of this card is going to be circle shaped.
This is given to us.
I can also say rectangle.
Shaped like this, if you go ahead and refresh, you should see rectangle.
And while you can see there is now the reason why it squares in a rectangle per say is because of the
size that we gave, we we gave 45 for all of height and width.
That's why we have square.
OK, very well.
So let's go back to circle what we had before.
So instead of our trailing lambda here, that means we can add contents that we want to see inside of
our card.
So in this case, I can say text like this and say tat like that.
Let's refresh.
And you can see we have tap showing there, but we have a problem here.
The tap is not in the middle.
We want it to be in the middle of our card.
Now there are different ways to deal with this issue.
One of the quicker ways we have here to force the tap, the text we have here to be in the middle is
to wrap this text into a box because a box will have because a box will have an argument, because a
box will have a parameter that will allow us to set whatever is inside of his box to be in the middle.
So what?
I'm going to do a table and say box, and there we go.
The first box there and I'm going to get all of that input inside.
And if you have over it instead of a box, it is indeed a composable.
Everything is pretty much a composable.
Any jetpack compose and you can see we have modifier as the first parameter there and we have the content
alignment.
This is real good because it will allow us to align the contents inside of this box, which in this
case is the text.
So when I say content start typing content alignment, I'd expect an alignment object and say alignment,
and there are different objects, zero different variables that we can pass.
So the alignment we want is the center, OK, not top center.
We want just the center as such a hit enter in Whyalla.
OK, there we go.
So let's see if this true, if I refresh this, I should be able to see tap now in the middle.
So tap is now in the middle of our circle.
That means if I make this a little bit bigger, you can see it doesn't matter how big or how small it
is our card in this circle.
It's always going to be in the middle.
OK, there we go.
And voila!